MySQL is a very popular open source Relational Database Management System.

What is RDBMS(Relational Database Management System):
        1.It's a type of database management system that stores data in a structured format, using rows and colums in tables to represent and organize information.
        2.The relational model is based on mathematical set theory and is widely used to managing structured data.
        3.Key features of RDBMS:
            a.Tables:
                i.Data is organized into tables, where each table consist rows and columns.
                ii.Each row represent a record and each column represent a specific attribute or field
            b.Relationships:
                i.RDBMS allows the establishment of Relationships between tables.
                ii.This is done through keys, where one table can reference another using primary and foreign keys.
                iii.This ensures data integrity and consistency.
            c.Constraints:
                i.RDBMS support to used constraints to define rule for the data of tables.
                ii.Some of the common constraints like "Primary", "foreign", "check", "unique".
            d.ACID properties:
                i.RDBMS adheres to ACID properties.
                ii.ACID stands for Automicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability
                iii.Explore ACID:
                        a.Automicity:Ensures that a transaction is treated as a single, indivisible unit of worlk,
                        b.Consistency: Gurantees that database is in a consistent state before or after the transaction.
                        c.Isolation: Ensures that transaction is executed in isolation from each other.
                        d.Durablility:Gurantees that once a transaction is committed, its affects permanent
           e.SQL(Structured Query Language):
                1.RDBMS uses SQL for defininig and manipulating data.
                ii.SQL provide standardized way to interact with database, allowing users to perform updating, querying and managing the database schema.  

What is MYSQl:
        1.MySQL is a Relational Database Management System(RDMS)
        2.MySQL is a open source
        3.MySQL is Free
        4.MySQL is compliant with the ANSI-SQL standard
        5.MySQL is very fast, reliable, scalable, and easy to use.
        6.MySQL is cross platform.
        7.MySQL is ideal for both small and large applications.
        8.MySQL was first released in 1995.
        9.MySQL is developed, distributed and supported by oracle corporation
        10.MySQL is named after co-founder Monty Widenius's daughter: My

Who uses MySQL:
        1.Huge websites like facebook, airbnb, twitter, github, Uber, Youtube,etc
        2.A very large number of wev developer around the world.

To show data on your website you will need:
        1.An RDMS program like MYSQL
        2.A server side scripting language like PHP
        3.To use SQL to get the data you want



----------------Select statement------------------


1.select:
        1.select statement is used to extract data from a database.
        2.syntax:
                --> select column1, column2,...
                    from table_name;
        3.Suppose our table name is Customer and we have to extract the data of customerID column then query will:
                --> select customerID from Customer;
        4.If we want to select all column from the table then use this syntax:
                --> select * from Customer;
        5.Example: SELECT CustomerName, City, Country FROM Customers;
2.select distinct:
        1.select distinct is used to return only distinct(different) values.
        2.Inside a table, a column containes duplicate values and sometimes you only want to list the different (distinct) values
        3.syntax:
                --> select distinct column1 column2
                    from table_name;
        4.Example: --> select distinct Country from Customer; (Name of the country can be same).
3.count: 
        1.It counts and return the number of values.
        2.Example: --> select count(distinct Country) from Customer;   (It counts and return the number of different values)
                        output: 21


----------------Where clause------------------
4.where:
        1.Where clause is used to filer data.
        2.It is used to extract only those data that fulfill a specified condition.
        3.The where clause is not only used in select statement, it is also used in update, delete, etc.
        4.syntax:
                select column1, column2
                from table_name
                where condition;
        5.Example: select * from Customer where Country = 'Mexico'; (it will show all the data of colum that fulfill a condition, means those have city "mexico")
        6.SQL require single quote around text values and numeric should not be enclosed in quotes:
        7.Example: select * from Customer where customerID = 1;
5.operators in the where clause:
        --> =, >, <, >=, <=, <>(not equal to. In some versions of sql it wil be written as !=), BETWEEN(between a certain range),
        LIKE(search for pattern), IN(To specify multiple possible values for a column).

        








Question for interview:
        1.What is SQL?
        2.How to use SQL?


Some of the most important SQL command:
        1.select: Extract data from a database.
        2.update: updates data in a database.
        3.delete: deletes data from a database.
        4.insert into: inserts new data into a database.
        5.create database: creates a new database.
        6.alter databse: modifies a database.
        7.create table: creates a new table.
        8.alter table: modifies a database.
        9.drop table: deletes a database.
        10.create index: creates an index(search key)
        11.drop index: deletes a index


Note:
        1.SQL is not case-sensitive, select is the same as SELECT.
        2.Semicolon after statemnt, it separate each sql statement in database system that allows us to execute more than one sql statement in the same call to the server.


